--- Page 1 ---
First Reg ular Sessio n of the 124th General A ssem bly (2025)
PRINTING CODE. Amendments: Whenever an existing statute (or a section of the Indiana
Constitution) is being amended, the text of the existing provision will appear in this style type,
additions will appear in this sty le type, and deletions will appear in this style type.
  Additions: Whenever a new statutory provision is being enacted (or a new constitutional
provision adopted), the text of the new provision will appear in  this  style  type. Also, the
word NEW will appear in that style type in the introductory clause of each SECTION that adds
a new provision to the Indiana Code or the Indiana Constitution.
  Conflict reconciliation: Text in a statute in this style type or this style type reconciles conflicts
between statutes enacted by the 2024 Regular Session of the General Assembly.
HOUSE ENROLLED ACT No. 1253
AN ACT to amend the Indiana Code concerning human services.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana:
SECTION 1. IC 12-17.2-2-8, AS AMENDED BY P.L.134-2024,
SECTION 4, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 8. The division shall exempt from licensure the
following programs:
(1) A program for children enrolled in grades kindergarten
through 12 that is operated by the department of education or a
public or private school.
(2) A program for children who become at least three (3) years of
age as of December 1 of a particular school year (as defined in
IC 20-18-2-17) that is operated by the department of education or
a public or private school.
(3) A nonresidential program for a child that provides child care
for less than four (4) hours a day.
(4) A recreation program for children that operates for not more
than ninety (90) days in a calendar year.
(5) A program whose primary purpose is to provide social,
recreational, or religious activities for school age children, such
as scouting, boys club, girls club, sports, or the arts.
(6) A program operated to serve migrant children that:
(A) provides services for children from migrant worker
families; and
(B) is operated during a single period of less than one hundred
HEA 1253 — Concur


--- Page 2 ---
2
twenty (120) consecutive days during a calendar year.
(7) A child care ministry registered under IC 12-17.2-6.
(8) A child care home if the provider operates to serve migrant
children.
(9) A child care program operated by a public or private school
that does the following:
(A) Provides day care on school property for children of
students or employees of schools in the school corporation in
which the public or private school is located.
(B) Complies with health, safety, and sanitation standards as
determined by the division under section 4 of this chapter for
child care centers or in accordance with a variance or waiver
of a rule governing child care centers approved by the division
under section 10 of this chapter.
(C) Substantially complies with the fire and life safety rules as
determined by the state fire marshal under rules adopted by the
division under section 4 of this chapter for child care centers
or in accordance with a variance or waiver of a rule governing
child care centers approved by the division under section 10 of
this chapter.
(10) A school age child care program (commonly referred to as a
latch key program) established under IC 20-26-5-2 that is
operated by:
(A) the department of education;
(B) a public or private school; or
(C) a public or private organization under a written contract
with:
(i) the department of education; or
(ii) a public or private school.
(11) A child care program that:
(A) is operated by a public or private organization under a
contract with a public or private school;
(B) serves children who are enrolled in the public or private
school in:
(i) grades kindergarten through 12; or
(ii) a preschool program offered by a public or private
school as described in this subdivision; and
(C) serves children who are:
(i) attending school through remote or e-learning due to a
disaster emergency declared under IC 10-14-3-12 or
IC 10-14-3-29; or
(ii) participating in a learning recovery program that
HEA 1253 — Concur


--- Page 3 ---
3
administers an assessment to measure student learning loss
and provides Indiana academic standar ds aligned
instruction.
(12) An educational program:
(A) consisting of a group of not more than ten (10) students
who attend the educational program in lieu of attending
prekindergarten or kindergarten through grade 12 at a public
or private school;
(B) whose students meet in a single classroom in person or
outside a classroom and which may include mixed age level
groupings; and
(C) that is under the supervision of a teacher or tutor.
(13) If located in the same public or private school building:
(A) a preschool program that is operated by the public or
private school; and
(B) either or both of the following:
(i) A child care program described in subdivision (9).
(ii) A school age child care program described in
subdivision (10).
(14) A child care program operated by a public or private school
that does the following:
(A) Provides day care on school property for children of
employees of a business or organization with which the school
has entered into a contract to provide services. If the school
property is owned by the school, the school property must have
been both:
(i) owned by the school; and
(ii) used for child care;
on or before January 1, 2024.
(B) Complies with health, safety, and sanitation standards as
determined by the division under section 4 of this chapter for
child care centers or in accordance with a variance or waiver
of a rule governing child care centers approved by the division
under section 10 of this chapter.
(C) Substantially complies with the fire and life safety rules as
determined by the state fire marshal under rules adopted by the
division under section 4 of this chapter for child care centers
or in accordance with a variance or waiver of a rule governing
child care centers approved by the division under section 10 of
this chapter.
SECTION 2. IC 12-17.2-2-11 IS AMENDED TO READ AS
FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 11. A waiver or
HEA 1253 — Concur


--- Page 4 ---
4
variance granted under section 10 of this chapter and a waiver or
variance renewed under section 12 of this chapter expires on the earlier
of the following:
(1) The date when the license affected by the waiver or variance
expires.
(2) The date set by the division for the expiration of the waiver or
variance.
(3) The occurrence of the event set by the division for the
expiration of the waiver or variance.
(4) Two (2) Three (3) years after the date that the waiver or
variance becomes effective.
SECTION 3. IC 12-17.2-2-15 IS ADDED TO THE INDIANA
CODE AS A NEW SECTION TO READ AS FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 15. (a) Not later than June 30,
2026, the division shall establish an organizational license category
for multi-site child care centers operating under one (1) owner.
(b) In establishing the license category under subsection (a), the
division shall do the following:
(1) Allow an owner to make a single license application for
one (1) or more child care centers and assign each owner's
license a unique license number.
(2) Allow an owner to pay a single licensure fee even if
applying for multiple child care center locations, which must
be equal to the fee that the owner would pay for each separate
child care license under section 2 of this chapter.
(3) Assign each owner a separate location number for each
facility.
(4) Monitor each facility separately by location number to
ensure that each facility separately meets important health
and safety standards.
(5) Inspect each location number separately for compliance,
create separate plans of correction for each location number,
and provide location number based enforcement that does not
affect the other location numbers.
(6) Provide maximum flexibility to an owner when the owner
is considering adding new locations to serve a community's
need for licensed child care.
(7) Reduce redundancy in the application process for an
owner.
(8) Reduce the administrative burden to the state in reviewing
multiple licenses for a single owner.
(9) Consider the maximum efficiencies for the organizational
HEA 1253 — Concur


--- Page 5 ---
5
license holder to drive down operational costs for the child
care center owner.
SECTION 4. IC 22-12-7-15 IS ADDED TO THE INDIANA CODE
AS A NEW SECTION TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
UPON PASSAGE]: Sec. 15. (a) Except as provided by subsection
(c), if a property is inspected by the department or plans were
reviewed by the department, neither the department nor a political
subdivision may require compliance with a new or different set of
building, fire safety, or equipment laws than were originally
enforced by the department:
(1) before July 1, 2025; or
(2) two (2) years after the earlier of the date of the:
(A) initial inspection; or
(B) plan review.
(b) A child care home (as defined in IC 12-7-2-28.6) that was
licensed to operate in a Class 2 structure by the office of the
secretary of family and social services before July 1, 2025, may
continue to operate in the structure notwithstanding the provisions
of this article and 675 IAC 13.
(c) Subsection (a) does not apply to any of the following:
(1) Any:
(A) fraud;
(B) material misrepresentation; or
(C) other act of bad faith;
that results in misapplication of the appropriate
requirements.
(2) A change of use or occupancy of the structure or
equipment.
(3) A condition imposed in a variance issued by the:
(A) department; or
(B) commission.
(4) Any new construction, addition, or alteration of the
structure or equipment.
(5) A violation that would qualify for an emergency order
under section 6(a)(1) of this chapter.
(6) Any maintenance requirements.
SECTION 5. An emergency is declared for this act.
HEA 1253 — Concur


--- Page 6 ---
Speaker of the House of Representatives
President of the Senate
President Pro Tempore
Governor of the State of Indiana
Date: Time: 
HEA 1253 — Concur
