--- Page 1 ---
First Reg ular Sessio n of the 124th General A ssem bly (2025)
PRINTING CODE. Amendments: Whenever an existing statute (or a section of the Indiana
Constitution) is being amended, the text of the existing provision will appear in this style type,
additions will appear in this sty le type, and deletions will appear in this style type.
  Additions: Whenever a new statutory provision is being enacted (or a new constitutional
provision adopted), the text of the new provision will appear in  this  style  type. Also, the
word NEW will appear in that style type in the introductory clause of each SECTION that adds
a new provision to the Indiana Code or the Indiana Constitution.
  Conflict reconciliation: Text in a statute in this style type or this style type reconciles conflicts
between statutes enacted by the 2024 Regular Session of the General Assembly.
HOUSE ENROLLED ACT No. 1390
AN ACT to amend the Indiana Code concerning motor vehicles.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana:
SECTION 1. IC 5-2-26.1 IS ADDED TO THE INDIANA CODE
AS A NEW CHAPTER TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]:
Chapter 26.1. Towing Rotation Requirements
Sec. 1. The definitions in IC 24-14-2 apply throughout this
chapter.
Sec. 2. A law enforcement agency shall do at least one (1) of the
following for emergency towing:
(1) Establish a written policy for towing rotations.
(2) Enter into a contract.
Sec. 3. (a) This section applies to:
(1) a written policy established after June 30, 2025; and
(2) a contract entered into, amended, or renewed after June
30, 2025.
(b) A written policy or contract required under section 2 of this
chapter must include the following, as applicable:
(1) The length of time of the contract between  the towing
company and the law enforcement agency, including renewal
periods.
(2) Rates for all services, including standby rates. A towing
company may include a standard minimum charge of one (1)
hour.
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 2 ---
2
(3) Rates for storage and the timing for when storage charges
begin.
(4) The allowable administrative fee for each service and
when the fee is applicable.
(5) Truck and equipment requirements.
(6) Availability of a towing company to respond to calls.
(7) Response time requirements.
(8) Storage lot requirements.
(9) Availability for the owner to pick up the vehicle, including
after hours.
(10) Access to personal belongings in a vehicle that is in
storage.
(11) Markup percentages for items or services provided by
third parties.
(12) A provision that allows the law enforcement agency to
suspend or remove a towing company that violates the written
policy or contract.
(13) A prohibition on charging fees that are not listed under
the written policy or contract.
(c) Notwithstanding IC 9-22-1-14, and in addition to the
requirements under subsection (b), in the case of a contract
between a towing company and a local law enforcement agency in
a county containing a consolidated city, the contract must provide
that a person may park a vehicle that is registered to the person's
residence on the street outside the person's residence for not more
than seven (7) days before the vehicle is required to be towed.
Sec. 4. A law enforcement agency may not use a towing
company that charges unreasonable fees as part of its towing
rotation. A law enforcement agency must perform a periodic
review of a towing company's rates for reasonableness.
Sec. 5. A law enforcement agency may select a towing company
outside of its towing rotation if an emergency situation requires the
use of a towing company with certain equipment or capacity to
adequately respond to the emergency situation.
SECTION 2. IC 8-2.1-17-6.5, AS AMENDED BY P.L.215-2023,
SECTION 7, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 6.5. (a) "Digital network", for purposes of
IC 8-2.1-19.1, means an online enabled application, software, website,
or system offered or used by a TNC to enable the prearrangement of
rides with TNC drivers.
(b) "Digital network", for purposes of this chapter and IC 8-2.1-19.3,
means an online enabled application, software, website, or system
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 3 ---
3
offered or used by a DNC to enab le deliveries with DNC drivers. A
digital network is not a product under law.
(c) A digital network is not a product under law.
SECTION 3. IC 8-15-2-14, AS AMENDED BY P.L.93-2024,
SECTION 81, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 14. (a) The authority may do the following:
(1) Fix, revise, charge, and collect tolls for the use of each toll
road project by any person, partnership, association, limited
liability company, or corporation desiring the use of any part
thereof, including the right-of-way adjoining the paved portion
and for placing thereon telephone, telegraph, electric light, or
power lines.
(2) Fix the terms, conditions, and rates of charge for such use,
including assessments for the failure to pay required tolls, subject,
however, to the state's police power.
(3) Collect tolls, user fees, or other charges through manual or
nonmanual methods, including, but not limited to, automatic
vehicle identification systems, electronic toll collection systems,
and, to the extent permitted by law, including rules adopted by the
authority under section 17.2(a)(10) of this chapter, global
positioning systems and photo or video based toll collection or
toll collection enforcement systems.
(4) Adopt rules under IC 4-22-2 authorizing the use of and
establishing procedures for the implementation of the collection
of user fees by electronic or other nonmanual means under
subdivision (3).
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), no toll or charge shall be made
by the authority under this section or under a public-private agreement
entered into under IC 8-15.5 for:
(1) the operation of temporary lodging facilities located upon or
adjacent to any project, nor may the authority itself operate or
gratuitously permit the operation of such temporary lodging
facilities by other persons without any toll or charge; or
(2) placing in, on, along, over, or under such project, such
telephone, telegraph, electric light or power lines, equipment, or
facilities as may be necessary to serve establishments located on
the project or as may be necessary to interconnect any public
utility facilities on one (1) side of the toll road project with those
on the other side.
(c) All contracts executed by the authority shall be preserved in the
principal office of the authority.
(d) In the case of a toll road project that is not leased to the
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 4 ---
4
department under IC 8-9.5-8-7, the tolls shall be fixed and adjusted for
each toll road project so that the aggregate of the tolls from the project,
together with other revenues that are available to the authority without
prior restriction or encumbrance, will at least be adequate to pay:
(1) the cost of operating, maintaining, and repairing the toll road
project, including major repairs, replacements, and
improvements;
(2) the principal of and the interest on bonds issued in connection
with the toll road project, as the principal and interest becomes
due and payable, including any reserve or sinking fund required
for the project; and
(3) the payment of principal of and interest on toll road bonds
issued by the authority in connection with any other toll road
project, including any reserve or sinking fund required for the
project, but only to the extent that the authority provides by
resolution and subject to the provisions of any trust agreement
relating to the project.
(e) Not less than one (1) year before the date that final payment of
all such bonds, interest, and reimbursement is expected by the
chairman of the authority to be completed, the chairman shall notify the
state budget committee in writing of the expected date of final
payment.
(f) Such tolls shall not be subject to supervision or regulation by any
other commission, board, bureau, or agency of the state.
(g) The tolls, rents, and all other revenues derived by the authority
from the toll road project, except those received in accordance with a
public-private agreement under IC 8-15.5, shall be used as follows:
(1) To pay the cost of operating, maintaining, and repairing the
toll road project, including major repairs, replacem ents, and
improvements, to the extent that those costs are not paid out of
other funds.
(2) To the extent provided for in the resolution authorizing the
issuance of bonds under this chapt er or in the trust agreement
securing the bonds, to pay:
(A) the principal of and interest on any bonds as the principal
and interest become due; or
(B) the redemption price or purchase price of the bonds retired
by call or purchase.
(3) Except as prohibited by the resolution authorizing the issuance
of bonds under this chapter or the trust agreement securing them,
for any purpose relating to any toll road project, including the
subject toll road project, as the authority provides by resolution.
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 5 ---
5
(h) Neither the resolution nor any trust agreement by which a pledge
is created needs to be filed or recorded except in the records of the
authority.
(i) The use and disposition of moneys to the credit of any sinking
fund shall be subject to the provisions of any resolution or resolutions
authorizing the issuance of any bonds or of any trust agreement. Except
as may otherwise be provided in this chapter or in any resolution or any
trust agreement, any sinking fund shall be a fund for all bonds without
distinction or priority of one over another, subject, however, to such
priorities as may arise from prior pledges.
(j) In the case of a toll road project that is leased to the department
under IC 8-9.5-8-8, the lease must require that the department fix tolls
for the toll road project that comply with IC 8-9.5-8-8(c)(6).
(k) User fees (as defined in IC 8-15.5-2-10) for a toll road project
that is subject to a public-private agreement under IC 8-15.5 shall be
set in accordance with IC 8-15.5-7.
(l) The amount of a toll must be invoiced to a driver not later
than one (1) year after the date the driver incurs the toll.
SECTION 4. IC 8-15.5-7-9 IS ADDED TO THE INDIANA CODE
AS A NEW SECTION TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE JULY
1, 2025]: Sec. 9. An operator must invoice a user for a user fee not
later than one (1) year after the date the operator incurs the toll.
SECTION 5. IC 9-17-5-2, AS AMENDED BY P.L.198-2016,
SECTION 240, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 2. A person that holds a lien on a
vehicle, has repossessed the vehicle, and wants to obtain a certificate
of title for the vehicle in the person's name may obtain the certificate
of title from the bureau if:
(1) the person from whom the vehicle has been repossessed is
shown by the records of the bureau, as defined in
IC 9-14-12-2(1) and IC 9-14-12-2(2), to be the last registered
owner of the vehicle; and
(2) the person that holds the lien:
(A) has complied with this chapter; and
(B) establishes to the satisfaction of the bureau that the person
is entitled to the certificate of title.
SECTION 6. IC 9-18.1-4-2, AS ADDED BY P.L.198-2016,
SECTION 326, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 2. (a) The bureau shall adopt rules
under IC 4-22-2 regarding the size, character, and content of a
certificate of registration. The bureau may issue a certificate of
registration by electronically delivering or providing access to an
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 6 ---
6
electronic certificate of registration.
(b) A certificate of registration or a legible reproduction of the
certificate of registration must be carried:
(1) in the vehicle to which the registration refers; or
(2) by the individual operating or in control of the vehicle, who
shall display the registration upon the demand of a police officer.
(c) An individual who fails to carry a certificate of registration or a
legible reproduction of a certificate of registration as required under
subsection (b) commits a Class C infraction.
SECTION 7. IC 9-18.1-12-2, AS AMENDED BY P.L.108-2019,
SECTION 180, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 2. (a) A person may apply to the
bureau for a temporary registration permit for a vehicle. The bureau
shall issue the person a temporary registration permit after the person
does the following:
(1) Provides proof of financial responsibility in effect with respect
to the vehicle in the amounts specified under IC 9-25.
(2) Pays a fee of eighteen dollars ($18). The fee shall be
distributed as follows:
(A) Twenty-five cents ($0.25) to the state construction fund.
(B) Fifty cents ($0.50) to the state motor vehicle technology
fund.
(C) One dollar and twenty-five cents ($1.25) to the integrated
public safety communications fund.
(D) Five dollars ($5) to the commission fund.
(E) Any remaining amount to the motor vehicle highway
account.
(b) A temporary registration permit is valid for a period of thirty
(30) days from the date of issuance and authorizes the use of the
vehicle on a highway if any of the following conditions exist:
(1) The person has purchased or otherwise obtained the vehicle
in Indiana and will be titling or registering the vehicle in another
state or foreign country.
(2) The person is an Indiana resident and is intending to move to
another state and the current vehicle registration or temporary
permit will expire before the person moves.
(3) The person is an Indiana resident and the vehicle registration
in another state has expired and the person has applied under
IC 9-17 for a title for the vehicle.
(4) The person owns and operates the vehicle and the person:
(A) does not operate the vehicle as a lessor; and
(B) moves the empty vehicle from one (1) lessee-carrier to
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 7 ---
7
another.
(5) The person owns a vehicle for which emissions testing is
required and the vehicle will require further mechanical repairs
in order to comply with the emissions testing requirements.
(c) A temporary registration permit shall be displayed on a vehicle
in a manner determined by the bureau.
(d) The bureau  may issue a temporary registration permit
under this section at the bureau's discretion if the person complies
with subsection (a) and applies in a form and manner prescribed
by the bureau.
SECTION 8. IC 9-18.5-2-2, AS ADDED BY P.L.198-2016,
SECTION 327, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 2. (a) A personalized license plate
may be the same color and size and contain similar required
information as regular license plates issued under IC 9-18 (before its
expiration) or IC 9-18.1 for the respective class of vehicle. The bureau
may offer alternative designs or color scheme versions of a license
plate issued under IC 9-18.1.
(b) A personalized license plate message is limited to the:
(1) numerals 0 through 9; or
(2) letters A through Z;
in a continuous combination of numbers and letters with at least two
(2) positions.
(c) A personalized license plate may not duplicate a regularly issued
plate.
(d) Only one (1) personalized plate, without regard to classification
of registration, may be issued by the bureau with the same
configuration of numbers and letters.
(e) A person that selects both an alternative design or color
scheme under subsection (a) and a personalized license plate
message under subsection (b) shall pay a separate fee for each
personalization under section 8(3) of this chapter.
SECTION 9. IC 9-18.5-2-4, AS ADDED BY P.L.198-2016,
SECTION 327, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 4. (a) A person that applies for:
(1) a personalized license plate; or
(2) the renewal of a personalized license plate in the subsequent
period;
must file an application in the manner the bureau requires. If a person
is making an application for a personalized license plate message
under section 2(b) of this chapter the person shall indicate
indicating the combination of letters or numerals, or both, requested by
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 8 ---
8
the person.
(b) The bureau may refuse to issue a combination of letters or
numerals, or both, that:
(1) carries a connotation offensive to good taste and decency;
(2) would be misleading; or
(3) the bureau otherwise considers improper for issuance.
SECTION 10. IC 9-18.5-2-8, AS ADDED BY P.L.198-2016,
SECTION 327, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 8. The bureau shall issue a
personalized license plate under this chapter to a person that does the
following:
(1) Complies with IC 9-18 (before its expiration) or IC 9-18.1.
(2) Pays any additional fee associated with a license plate
described in section 1(b) of this chapter.
(3) Pays a fee of forty-five dollars ($45) each for an alternative
design or color scheme under section 2(a) of this chapter or a
personalized license plate message under section 2(b) of this
chapter. The fee shall be distributed as follows:
(A) Four dollars ($4) to the crossroads 2000 fund.
(B) Seven dollars ($7) to the motor vehicle highway account.
(C) Thirty-four dollars ($34) to the commission fund.
Upon the payment of the fee, the bureau shall issue a receipt.
SECTION 11. IC 9-18.5-2-9, AS ADDED BY P.L.198-2016,
SECTION 327, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 9. If a person that applies for a
personalized license plate under this chapter with a given
configuration of letters or numbers is not able to obtain the license
plate requested or a satisfactory alternative configuration, the bureau
shall refund the entire personalized license plate fee associated with
the personalized license plate message under section 8(3) of this
chapter to the person. However, a refund of a personalized license plate
fee may not be made when the person that applies for the personalized
license plate cancels the request.
SECTION 12. IC 9-18.5-12-3, AS ADDED BY P.L.198- 2016,
SECTION 327, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 3. (a) A special group that seeks
initial participation in the special group recognition license plate
program must submit a completed application to the bureau not later
than April 1 for potential issuance in the following year. The
application must contain the following:
(1) The name and address of the resident agent of the special
group.
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 9 ---
9
(2) Evidence of governance by a board of directors consisting of
at least five (5) members, a majority of whom are outside
directors, who meet at least semiannually to establish policy for
the special group and review the accomplishments of the special
group.
(3) A copy of the:
(A) ethics statement;
(B) constitution and bylaws; and
(C) articles of incorporation as an entity that is exempt from
federal income taxation under Section 501(c) of the Internal
Revenue Code;
of the special group.
(4) Copies of the last three (3) consecutive:
(A) annual reports; and
(B) annual generally accepted auditing standards or
government auditing standards audits;
of the special group.
(5) Evidence of appropriate use of resources and compliance with
federal and state laws, including evidence of appropriate
management and internal controls in order to ensure:
(A) compliance with law;
(B) that finances are used in compliance with the purpose
statement of the special group; and
(C) maintenance as an entity that is exempt from taxation
under Section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.
(6) Evidence of transparency of financial and operational
activities to include availability of current financial statements at
any time upon the request of the bureau or a donor to the special
group.
(7) Evidence of internal controls to prevent conflict of interest by
board members and employees.
(8) A petition with the dated signatures of at least five hundred
(500) one thousand (1,000) residents of Indiana, obtained
during a single calendar year, who pledge to purchase the
special group recognition license plate.
(9) A statement of the designated use of any annual fee to be
collected by the bureau.
(10) A copy of a certified motion passed by the board of directors
of the special group requesting that the special group recognition
license plate be issued by the bureau and stating the designated
use of any annual fee to be collected by the bureau.
(11) Evidence of statewide public benefit from the special group.
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 10 ---
10
(12) Evidence of statewide public benefit from the use of the
annual fee collected by the bureau.
(13) Evidence that the special group's use of the annual fee to be
collected by the bureau and the organizational purpose statement
of the special group conform with at least one (1) of the following
categories:
(A) Direct health care or medical research.
(B) Fraternal or service organizations.
(C) Government and quasi-government. For purposes of this
clause, a special group that designates the use of the fees
collected for deposit in the capital projects fund established by
IC 9-18.5-28-5(a) is considered to have a quasi-government
purpose.
(D) Military and veterans' affairs.
(E) Public and transportation safety.
(F) A state educational institution (as defined in
IC 21-7-13-32) or an approved postsecondary educational
institution (as defined in IC 21-7-13-6) for scholarships for
Indiana residents.
(G) Agriculture, animals, and environment.
(14) Evidence that the organization has prohibitions and internal
controls prohibiting advocacy of the following:
(A) Violation of federal or state law.
(B) Violation of generally accepted ethical standards or
societal behavioral standards.
(C) Individual political candidates.
(b) The bureau shall review the application for a special group
recognition license plate that has been submitted to the bureau under
subsection (a). Upon satisfaction to the bureau of the completeness of
the information in the application, the bureau shall forward the
application to the executive director of the legislative services agency
in an electronic format under IC 5-14-6 for review by the committee.
SECTION 13. IC 9-18.5-12-13, AS AMENDED BY P.L.118-2022,
SECTION 8, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 13. (a) In order to continue participation in the
special group recognition license plate program, a special group must:
(1) sell at least:
(A) for a special group recognition license plate issued
before January 1, 2026, five hundred (500) special group
recognition license plates of the special group; and
(B) for a special group recognition license plate issued after
December 31, 2025, one thousand (1,000) special group
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 11 ---
11
recognition license plates of the special group;
in the first two (2) years in which the license plate is offered for
sale; and
(2) maintain the sale or renewal of at least:
(A) for a special group recognition license plate issued
before January 1, 2026, five hundred (500) special group
recognition license plates; and
(B) for a special group recognition license plate issued after
December 31, 2025, one thousand (1,000) special group
recognition license plates;
during each subsequent year after the initial two (2) year period
of sale.
(b) If the special group fails to sell or renew special group
recognition license plates in the manner provided in subsection (a), the
bureau shall place the issuance of the special group recognition license
plates for the special group on probation for the subsequent year. If, in
that subsequent year on probation, the special group fails to sell or
renew at least five hundred (500) the number of special group
recognition license plates required under subsection (a), the bureau
shall terminate the participation of the special group in the speci al
group recognition license plate program. If the special group sells or
renews at least five hundred (500) the number of speci al group
recognition license plates required under subsection (a) in the year
on probation, the participation of the special group in the special group
recognition license plate program is continued. A special group shall
be afforded only one (1) probationary period under this subsection.
(c) The bureau may terminate the participation of a special group in
the special group recognition license plate program if the special
group:
(1) ceases operations; or
(2) fails to use the annual fee collected by the bureau in a manner
consistent with the statement submitted by the special group
under section 3(a)(9) of this chapter.
(d) A special group that desires to participate in the special group
recognition license plate program after termination by the bureau under
this section:
(1) must follow the procedure set forth in section 3 of this
chapter; and
(2) may not reapply to participate in the special group recognition
license plate program for at least two (2) years after termination.
(e) Upon termination under this section of a special group's
participation in the special group recognition license plate program, the
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 12 ---
12
bureau shall distribute any money remaining in the trust fund
established under section 14 of this chapter for the special group to the
state general fund.
SECTION 14. IC 9-20-9-1, AS AMENDED BY P.L.12-2013,
SECTION 2, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 1. (a) As used in this section, "drive away or tow
away" means the delivery service performed by a transport operator by
which motor vehicles in transit are delivered by driving singly or in
combination by the towbar, saddlemount, or fullmount methods or any
lawful combination of those methods, including coupling equipment or
where a truck or tractor draws or tows a semitrailer or trailer in transit.
(b) A combination of two (2) vehicles coupled together, including
load, may not exceed a total length of sixty (60) feet, except for the
following:
(1) A combination of two (2) vehicles coupled together that are
especially constructed to transport other vehicles or boats. This
exception includes any combination of a truck, tractor,
semitrailer, and trailer if the combination is used exclusively or
primarily in connection with motorsports.
(2) A combination of two (2) vehicles coupled together being
transported in a drive away or tow away service.
(3) A pole trailer owned by or operated for a public utility (as
defined in IC 8-1-2-1), while the pole trailer is being used in
connection with the utility services of the public utility.
(4) Trailers used in transporting oil field equipment or pipe for the
transmission of oil or gas.
(5) Construction vehicles with a towbar connection used in
connection with a trailer used to haul heavy equipment.
SECTION 15. IC 9-21-9-2 IS AMENDED TO READ AS
FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 2. Whenever a vehicle
is moved, operated, or driven on a highway that is open for vehicular
travel, the vehicle shall display a triangular slow moving vehicle
emblem mounted as near as is practicable to the center of mass and at
an approximate height of not less than three (3) two (2) and not more
than five (5) ten (10) feet from level ground or pavement surface. The
emblem shall be mounted so as to be entirely visible from the rear, day
or night. The emblem and the emblem's position of mounting on the
vehicle must meet the specifications established by rules adopted by
the Indiana criminal justice institute. substantially adhere to the
recommendations of the:
(1) American Society of Agricultural and Biological
Engineers;
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 13 ---
13
(2) American National Standards Institute; and
(3) Society of Automotive Engineers.
SECTION 16. IC 9-21-9-5 IS REPEALED [EFFECTIVE JULY 1,
2025]. Sec. 5. (a) The Indiana criminal justice institute shall adopt rules
under IC 4-22-2 establishing standards and specifications for the
design, materials, and mounting of a standard slow moving vehicle
emblem for the uniform identification of slow moving vehicles.
(b) In adopting rules under subsection (a), the Indiana criminal
justice institute shall subst antially adher e to the current
recommendations of the American Society of Agricultural Engineers,
the American National Standards Institute, and the Society of
Automotive Engineers so that the slow moving vehicle emblem may be
more universally recognizable and of adequate quality.
(c) The Indiana criminal justice institute shall adopt revisions to the
standards and specifications adopted as required under subsection (a)
as amendments are made to the recommendations of the American
Society of Agricultural Engineers, the American National Standards
Institute, and the Society of Automotive Engineers regarding the slow
moving vehicle emblem.
SECTION 17. IC 9-22-1-8, AS AMENDED BY P.L.281-2019,
SECTION 1, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 8. (a) Subject to subsection (b), If the properly
identified person who owns or holds a lien on a vehicle appears at the
site of storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts and pays all costs
relating to a tow, the storage of the vehicle, and all allowable fees, as
applicable, the vehicle or parts shall be released.
(b) A towing service or storage yard may not charge an inspection
fee to an owner, a lienholder, or an insurance company representative
to inspect a vehicle or retrieve items from the vehicle. A fee under this
subsection must be refunded if the costs relating to a tow, the storage
of the vehicle, and all allowable fees, as applicable, are paid under
subsection (a).
(c) A towing service or storage yard must accept payment made by
any of the following means from a person seeking to release a vehicle
under this section:
(1) Cash.
(2) Certified check.
(3) Insurance check.
(4) Money order.
A towing service or storage facility may elect to accept payment by
means of a credit card or debit card.
(d) Upon receiving payment of all costs relating to a tow, the storage
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 14 ---
14
of a vehicle, and all allowable fees, as applicable, a towing service or
storage yard shall provide to the person making payment an itemized
receipt that includes the information set forth in IC 24-14-5, to the
extent the information is known or available.
(e) A towing service or storage yard must be open for business and
accessible by telephone during regular office hours. A towing service
or storage yard must provide a telephone number that is available on a
twenty-four (24) hour basis to receive calls and messages from callers,
including calls made outside of regular office hours. All calls made to
a towing service or storage yard must be returned within twenty-four
(24) hours from the time received. However, if adverse weather, an act
of God, or an emergency situation over which the towing service or
storage yard has no control prevents the towing service or storage yard
from returning calls within twenty-four (24) hours, the towing service
or storage yard shall return all calls received as quickly as possible.
(f) A towing service or storage yard shall, if required, notify the
appropriate public agency of all releases under this section. The
notification must include:
(1) the name and address of:
(A) the person that owns or holds a lien on the vehicle; and
(B) the insurance company that insures the vehicle, if the
vehicle was released to a representative of the insurance
company;
(2) the signature of the individual to whom the vehicle was
released;
(3) a description of the vehicle or parts;
(4) costs paid; and
(5) the date of release.
(g) A towing service or storage yard shall release property to a
properly identified person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle
not later than twenty-four (24) hours after the towing service's or
storage yard's receipt of:
(1) payment of seventy-five percent (75%) of the amount of
the invoice;
(2) proof of a bond obtained by the owner for the remaining
twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the invoice,
payable in the event the owner does not comply with a court
order under subsection (j); and
(3) a copy of a complaint filed with the attorney general
alleging a violation of IC 24-14 under IC 24-14-10-1.
(h) The owner shall file a civil complaint in the appropriate
jurisdiction not later than thirty (30) days after providing the items
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 15 ---
15
required to release the vehicle under subsection (g) if the disputed
invoice amount has not been resolved. A towing service or storage
yard may bring a civil complaint in an appropriate jurisdiction at
any time within the same thirty (30) day period asking the court to
resolve the disputed invoice amount.
(i) A civil complaint filed under subsection (h) must include the
amounts in the invoice that are disputed and the reason s those
amounts are disputed. A copy of the invoice and any evidence of
reaso nableness or unreasonableness must be filed with the
complaint.
(j) After a civil complaint is filed under subsection (h), the court
shall make a determination as to whether the amount charged by
the towing service or storage yard is reasonable. If the court
determines that the amount is reasonable, the court shall order the
owner to pay the amount of the invoice, minus the amount paid
under subsection (g)(1). If the court determines that the amount
charged was unreasonable, the court shall determine a reasonable
amount and order the owner to pay that amount minus the amount
paid under subsection (g)(1). If the reasonable amount determined
by the court is less than the amount paid under subsection (g)(1),
the court shall order the towing service or storage yard to pay the
owner the difference in those amounts. The court may also require
either party to pay or refund any additional amount and may
impose any monetary penalties that the court determines to be
appropriate.
(k) Nothing in this section creates, implies, or otherwise grants
insurance coverage for the amount billed by a towing service or
storage facility that is not within the owner's automobile insurance
policy or other policy of insurance.
SECTION 18. IC 9-22-1-11, AS AMENDED BY P.L.54-2009 ,
SECTION 6, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 11. (a) An officer who finds or is notified of a
vehicle or parts believed to be abandoned shall attach in a prominent
place a notice tag containing the following information:
(1) The date, time, officer's name, public agency, and address and
telephone number to contact for information.
(2) That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned.
(3) That the vehicle or parts will be removed after:
(A) twenty-four (24) hours, if the vehicle is located on or
within the right-of-way of an interstate highway or any
highway that is designated as part of the state highway system
under IC 8-23-4; or
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 16 ---
16
(B) except as provided in subsection (b), seventy-two (72)
hours, for any other vehicle.
(4) That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible
for all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the
vehicle.
(5) That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by
removal of the vehicle or parts within:
(A) twenty-four (24) hours, if the vehicle is located on or
within the right-of-way of an interstate highway or any
highway that is designated as part of the state highway system
under IC 8-23-4; or
(B) seventy-two (72) hours, for any other vehicle.
(b) This subsection applies only to an abandoned vehicle as
defined in IC 9-13-2-1(2). The legislative body of a consolidated
city may adopt an ordinance that establishes a different waiting
period for the removal of an abandoned vehicle, which must be at
least seventy-two (72) hours but not more than fourteen (14) days,
for the purpose of allowing a person  to park their vehicle that is
registered to their residence on the street outside of that residence.
SECTION 19. IC 9-22-1-14, AS AMENDED BY P.L.125-2012,
SECTION 121, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 14. (a) If in the opinion of the
officer the market value of the abandoned vehicle or parts is at least:
(1) one thousand dollars ($1,000); or
(2) in a municipality that has adopted an ordinance under section
13(b) of this chapter, the amount established by the ordinance;
the officer, before placing a notice tag on the vehicle or parts, shall
make a reasonable effort to ascertain the person who owns the vehicle
or parts or who may be in control of the vehicle or parts.
(b) Except as provided in section 11(b) of this chapter, after
seventy-two (72) hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to
be towed to a storage yard or towing service.
SECTION 20. IC 9-22-1-27, AS AMENDED BY P.L.191-2007,
SECTION 18, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 27. (a) This section applies to sales of abandoned
vehicles or parts by a city, county, or town.
(b) The proceeds from the sale of abando ned vehicles or parts,
including:
(1) charges for bills of sale; and
(2) money received from persons who own or hold liens on
vehicles for the cost of removal or storage of vehicles;
shall be credited against the costs of removal, storage, and disposal
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 17 ---
17
of the vehicle. The remaining proceeds shall be deposited in the
city's, county's, or town's abandoned vehicle fund by the fiscal officer
of the city, county, or town.
(c) The costs incurred by a public agency in administering this
chapter shall be paid from the abandoned vehicle fund.
(d) The fiscal body shall annually appropriate sufficient money to
the fund to carry out this chapter. Money remaining in the fund at the
end of a year remains in the fund and does not revert to the general
fund.
(e) Notwithstanding subsection (d), the fiscal body of a consolidated
city may transfer money from the fund.
SECTION 21. IC 9-22-3-4.1, AS ADDED BY P.L.198-2016,
SECTION 385, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 4.1. (a) This section applies to a
vehicle:
(1) for which an insurance company has made and paid an agreed
settlement; and
(2) that meets at least one (1) of the criteria set forth in section 3
of this chapter.
(b) A person that owns or holds a lien upon a vehicle described in
subsection (a) shall assign the certificate of title to the insurance
company described in subsection (a) not more than thirty (30) days
after the date of settlement. An assignment under this subsection
does not require notarization and may be signed electronically.
(c) The insurance company shall:
(1) apply to the bureau within forty-five (45) days after receipt of
the certificate of title for a certificate of salvage title for each
vehicle subject to this chapter; and
(2) if in the possess ion of the insurance company, surrender
the:
(A) certificate of title, signed or unsigned; or
 (B) other proof of ownership;
to the bureau; and or other proof of ownership to the bureau and
pay a salvage title fee of four dollars ($4). The fee shall be
deposited in the motor vehicle highway account.
(3) pay a salvage title fee of four dollars ($4). The fee shall be
deposited in the motor vehicle highway account.
(d) After the bureau has received the items set forth in subsection
(c)(2) and (c)(3), the bureau shall issue a certificate of salvage title for
a vehicle to:
(1) the owner, if the owner retains possession of the vehicle as
part of an agreed settlement with an insurance company for the
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 18 ---
18
vehicle; or
(2) the insurance company, if the owner does not retain
possession.
(e) Except as provided in section 4.4 of this chapter, a person that
violates this section commits a Class D infraction.
SECTION 22. IC 9-22-3-4.2, AS ADDED BY P.L.198-2016,
SECTION 386, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 4.2. (a) A self-insured entity that
owns a vehicle that meets at least one (1) of the criteria set forth in
section 3 of this chapter shall apply to the bureau within forty-five (45)
days after the date of loss for a certificate of salvage title in the name
of the self-insured entity's name.
(b) Any other person acquiring a wrecked or damaged vehicle that
meets at least one (1) of the criteria set forth in section 3 of this
chapter, which acquisition is not evidenced by a certificate of salvage
title, shall apply to the bureau within forty-five (45) days after
acquiring the vehicle for a certificate of salvage title.
(c) The bureau shall issue a certificate of salvage title as proof of
ownership for a salvage vehicle when the acquiring person does the
following:
(1) Makes a proper application in the manner and form prescribed
by the bureau.
(2) Pays a salvage title fee of four dollars ($4). The fee shall be
deposited in the motor vehicle highway account.
(3) If in the possession of the acquiring person, surrenders the
vehicle's original certificate of title or other proof of ownership.
as determined by the bureau.
(d) Except as provided in section 4.4 of this chapter, a person that
violates this section commits a Class D infraction.
SECTION 23. IC 9-22-3-4.4, AS ADDED BY P.L.198-2016,
SECTION 388, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 4.4. (a) For purposes of sections
4.1, 4.2, and 4.3 of this chapter, "other proof of ownership" with respect
to a vehicle includes the following items that contain the physical or
electronic signature of the owner, with or without notarization:
(1) A document granting an insurance company a limited power
of attorney.
(2) An affidavit transferring title to an insurance company.
(3) Another document authorizing an insurance company to
assign ownership of the motor vehicle.
(b) A person that violates section 4.1, 4.2, or 4.3 of this chapter by
knowingly or intentionally submitting a fraudulent document or
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 19 ---
19
affidavit described in subsection (a) commits a Class A infraction.
(c) Other proof of ownership may accompany a signed or
unsigned vehicle title. The bureau may accept a signed vehicle title
as other proof of ownership.
SECTION 24. IC 9-24-3-2.5, AS AMENDED BY P.L.111-2021,
SECTION 38, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 2.5. (a) Except as provided in section 3 of this
chapter, an individual must satisfy the requirements set forth in one (1)
of the following subdivisions to receive a driver's license:
(1) The individual meets the following conditions:
(A) Is at least sixteen (16) years and ninety (90) days of age.
(B) Has held a valid learner's permit for at least one hundred
eighty (180) days.
(C) Obtains an instructor's certification that the individual has
satisfactorily completed an approved driver education course.
(D) Passes the required examinations.
(E) Completes at least fifty (50) hours of supervised driving
practice, of which at least ten (10) hours are nighttime driving,
as provided in subsection (b).
(2) The individual meets the following conditions:
(A) Is at least sixteen (16) years and two hundred seventy
(270) days of age.
(B) Has held a valid learner's permit for at least one hundred
eighty (180) days.
(C) Passes the required examinations.
(D) Completes at least fifty (50) hours of supervised driving
practice, of which at least ten (10) hours are nighttime driving,
as provided in subsection (b).
(3) The individual meets the following conditions:
(A) Is at least sixteen (16) years and one hundred eighty (180)
days of age but less than eighteen (18) years of age.
(B) Has previously been a nonresident of Indiana, but, at the
time of application, qualifies as an Indiana resident.
(C) Has held for at least sixty (60) days a valid driver's license,
excluding a learner's permit or the equivalent, in the state or a
combination of states in which the individual formerly resided.
(D) Passes the required examinations.
(4) The individual meets the following conditions:
(A) Is at least eighteen (18) years of age.
(B) Has previously been a nonresident but, at the time of
application, qualifies as an Indiana resident.
(C) Held a valid driver's license, excluding a learner's permit
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 20 ---
20
or the equivalent, from the state or country of prior residence.
(D) Passes the required examinations.
(5) The individual meets the following conditions:
(A) Is at least eighteen (18) years of age.
(B) Is a person with a disability.
(C) Holds an Indiana learner's permit.
(D) Has successfully completed driver rehabilitation training
by a certified driver rehabilitation specialist recognized by the
bureau.
(E) Passes the required examinations.
(6) The individual meets the following conditions:
(A) Is at least sixteen (16) years and ninety (90) days of age.
(B) Is a person with a disability.
(C) Has held a valid learner's permit for at least one
hundred eighty (180) days.
(D) Has successfully completed driver rehabilitation
training by a certified driver rehabilitation specialist
recognized by the bureau.
(E) Passes the required examinations.
(F) Completes at least fifty (50) hours of supervised driving
practice, of which at least ten (10) hours are nighttime
driving, as provided in subsection (b).
(b) An applicant who is required to complete at least fifty (50) hours
of supervised practice driving under subsection (a)(1)(E), or (a)(2)(D),
or (a)(6)(F) must do the following:
(1) If the applicant is less than eighteen (18) years of age,
complete the practice driving with:
(A) a licensed driver, with valid driving privileges, who is:
(i) at least twenty-five (25) years of age; and
(ii) related to the applicant by blood, marriage, or legal
status;
(B) the spouse of the applicant who is:
(i) a licensed driver with valid driving privileges; and
(ii) at least twenty-one (21) years of age; or
(C) an individual with valid driving privileges who:
(i) is licensed as a driver education instructor under
IC 9-27-6-8 and is working under the direction of a driver
training school described in IC 9-27-6-3(a)(2); or
(ii) is a certified driver rehabilitation specialist recognized
by the bureau who is employed through a driver
rehabilitation program.
(2) If the applicant is at least eighteen (18) years of age, complete
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 21 ---
21
the driving practice with:
(A) a licensed driver, with valid driving privileges, who is at
least twenty-five (25) years of age; or
(B) the spouse of the applicant who is:
(i) a licensed driver with valid driving privileges; and
(ii) at least twenty-one (21) years of age.
(3) If the applicant is less than eighteen (18) years of age and is
under the care and supervision of the department of child
services, complete the driving practice with:
(A) a licensed driver with valid driving privileges who is:
(i) at least twenty-five (25) years of age; and
(ii) related to the applicant by blood, marriage, or legal
status;
(B) a licensed driver with valid driving privileges who is:
(i) at least twenty-five (25) years of age; and
(ii) approved by the department of child services; or
(C) an individual with valid driving privileges who is:
(i) licensed as a driver education instructor under
IC 9-27-6-8 and is working under the direction of a driver
training school described in IC 9-27-6-3(a)(2); or
(ii) a certified driver rehabilitation specialist recognized by
the bureau who is employed through a driver rehabilitation
program.
(4) Submit to the commission under IC 9-24-9-2(c) evidence of
the time logged in practice driving.
SECTION 25. IC 9-24-6.1-5, AS ADDED BY P.L.198-2016,
SECTION 452, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 5. (a) The bureau may contract with
public and private institutions, agencies, businesses, and organizations
to conduct testing required to implement the program. A person that
conducts testing under this section may impose, collect, and retain fees
for conducting the testing.
(b) Fees for testing under this section may be not more than the
following:
(1) One hundred fifty dollars ($150) per skills exam if:
(A) the applicant is an employee of the Indiana department
of transportation; or
(B) the applicant is a school bus driver.
(2) Two hundred dollars ($200) for an initial skills exam.
(3) One hundred fifty dollars ($150) for a second skills exam.
(4) One hundred dollars ($100) for a third skills exam and any
subsequent skills exam.
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 22 ---
22
SECTION 26. IC 9-24-7-7, AS AMENDED BY P.L.85-2013,
SECTION 33, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 7. The bureau shall publish the following:
(1) An online driving guide that may be used by the holder of a
learner's permit and the parent of the holder of a learner's permit,
if applicable.
(2) An online log that must be completed to show evidence of the
completion of the hours of supervised practice driving required
under IC 9-24-3-2.5(a)(1)(E), or IC 9-24-3-2.5(a)(2)(D), or
IC 9-24-3-2.5(a)(6)(F).
SECTION 27. IC 9-24-8.5-2, AS AMENDED BY P.L.141-2024,
SECTION 21, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 2. (a) A driver's license issued under IC 9-24-3
may include one (1) or more of the following:
(1) A motorcycle endorsement under IC 9-24-8-4 (before its
expiration) or section 3 of this chapter.
(2) A for-hire endorsement under section 5 of this chapter.
(b) A commercial driver's license may include one (1) or more of
the following:
(1) A motorcycle endorsement under IC 9-24-8-4 (before its
expiration) or section 3 of this chapter.
(2) Except for a hazardous materials endorsement and an
intrastate passenger transport endorsement, an endorsement
under IC 9-24-6.1, including under any rules adopted under
IC 9-24-6.1, if the applicant is at least twenty-one (21) years of
age.
(3) A hazardous materials endorsem ent and an intrastate
passenger transport endorsement under IC 9-24-6.1, including
under any rules adopted under IC 9-24-6.1, if the applicant is at
least eighteen (18) years of age.
SECTION 28. IC 9-24-9-2, AS AMENDED BY P.L.141-2024,
SECTION 22, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 2. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), each
application for a driver's license or permit under this chapter must
require the following information:
(1) The full legal name of the applicant.
(2) The applicant's date of birth.
(3) The gender of the applicant.
(4) The applicant's height, weight, hair color, and eye color.
(5) The address of the applicant.
(6) A:
(A) valid Social Security number; or
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 23 ---
23
(B) verification of an applicant's:
(i) ineligibility to be issued a Social Security number;
(ii) identity; and
(iii) lawful status.
(7) Whether the applicant has been subject to fainting spells or
seizures.
(8) Whether the applicant has been issued a driver's license or has
been the holder of a permit, and if so, when and by what
jurisdiction.
(9) Whether the applicant's driver's license or permit has ever
been suspended or revoked, and if so, the date of and the reason
for the suspension or revocation.
(10) Whether the applicant has been convicted of:
(A) a crime punishable as a felony under Indiana motor
vehicle law; or
(B) any other felony in the commission of which a motor
vehicle was used;
that has not been expunged by a court.
(11) Whether the applicant has a physical or mental disability,
and if so, the nature of the disability.
(12) The signature of the applicant showing the applicant's legal
name as it appears or will appear on the driver's license or permit.
(13) A digital photograph of the applicant.
(14) Any other information the bureau requires.
(b) For purposes of subsection (a), an individual certified as a
program participant in the address confidentiality program under
IC 5-26.5 is not required to provide the individual's address, but may
provide an address designated by the office of the attorney general
under IC 5-26.5 as the individual's address.
(c) In addition to the information required by subsection (a), an
applicant who is required to complete at least fifty (50) hours of
supervised practice driving under IC 9-24-3-2.5(a)(1)(E), or
IC 9-24-3-2.5(a)(2)(D), or IC 9-24-3-2.5(a)(6)(F) must submit to the
bureau evidence of the time logged in practice driving.
SECTION 29. IC 9-24-12-0.5, AS AMENDED BY P.L.211-2023,
SECTION 43, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 0.5. (a) A learner's permit issued in the form of a
physical credential expires two (2) years after the date of issuance. A
learner's permit expires upon the bureau receiving notice of the
death of the holder or upon issuance of a subsequent physical
credential.
(b) A motorcycle learner's permit expires one (1) year after the date
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 24 ---
24
of issuance. A motorcycle permit may be renewed one (1) time for a
period of one (1) year. An individual who does not obtain a motorcycle
endorsement under IC 9-24-8.5 before the expiration of the renewed
motorcycle permit may not reapply for a new motorcycle permit for a
period of one (1) year after the date of expiration of the renewed
motorcycle permit. The bureau  may not issue more than three (3)
motorcycle learner's permits to an individual within a five (5) year
period. A motorcycle learner's permit expires upon the bureau
receiving notice of the death of the holder.
(c) A commercial learner's permit expires one hundred eighty (180)
days after the date of issuance. The bureau may issue not more than
three (3) commercial learner's permits to an individual within a
twenty-four (24) month period. A commercial learner's permit
expires upon the bureau receiving notice of the death of the holder.
(d) The fee to renew a permit that expires under this section is the
applicable fee to issue the permit under this article.
SECTION 30. IC 9-24-12-11, AS AMENDED BY P.L.141-2024,
SECTION 30, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 11. (a) This section applies to a driver's license
other than a commercial driver's license.
(b) If the birthday of a holder on which the holder's driver's license
would otherwise expire falls on:
(1) Sunday;
(2) a legal holiday (as set forth in IC 1-1-9-1); or
(3) a weekday when all license branches in the county of
residence of the holder are closed;
the driver's license of the holder does not expire until midnight of the
first day after the birthday on which a license branch is open for
business in the county of residence of the holder.
(c) A driver's license issued to an applicant who complies with
IC 9-24-9-2.5 expires:
(1) at midnight one (1) year after issuance if there is no expiration
date on the authorization granted to the individual to remain in the
United States; or
(2) if there is an expiration date on the authorization granted to
the individual to remain in the United States, the earlier of the
following:
(A) At midnight of the date the authorization of the holder to
have lawful status as a permanent resident or conditional
resident alien of the United States expires.
(B) At midnight of the birthday of the holder that occurs six
(6) years after the date of issuance.
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 25 ---
25
(d) A driver's license expires upon the bureau receiving notice of the
death of the holder or the issuance of a subsequent physical
credential.
SECTION 31. IC 9-24-16-4, AS AMENDED BY P.L.211-2023,
SECTION 56, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 4. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b) and
section 5(e) of this chapter, an identification card expires at midnight
of the birthday of the holder that occurs six (6) years following the date
of issuance.
(b) An identification card issued under this article to an applicant
who complies with section 3.5 of this chapter expires:
(1) at midnight one (1) year after issuance, if there is no
expiration date on the authorization granted to the individual to
remain in the United States; or
(2) if there is an expiration date on the authorization granted to
the individual to remain in the United States, the earlier of the
following:
(A) At midnight of the date the authorization of the holder to
have lawful status as a permanent resident or conditional
resident alien of the United States expires.
(B) At midnight of the birthday of the holder that occurs six
(6) years after the date of issuance.
SECTION 32. IC 9-24-16-5, AS AMENDED BY P.L.141-2024,
SECTION 37, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 5. (a) An application for renewal of an
identification card issued in the form of a physical credential may be
made not more than twenty-four (24) months before the expiration date
of the card issued in the form of a physical credential. However, when
the applicant complies with section 3.5 of this chapter, an application
for renewal of an identification card issued in the form of a physical
credential may be filed not more than one (1) month before the
expiration date of the identification card issued in the form of a
physical credential held by the applicant.
(b) Except as provided in subsection (d), a renewed card issued in
the form of a physical credential is valid on the birth date of the holder
and remains valid for six (6) years.
(c) Renewal may not be granted if the cardholder was issued a
driver's license issued in the form of a physical credential subsequent
to the last issuance of an identification card issued in the form of a
physical credential.
(d) A renewed identification card issued under this article in the
form of a physical credential to an applicant who complies with section
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 26 ---
26
3.5 of this chapter expires:
(1) at midnight one (1) year after issuance, if there is no
expiration date on the authorization granted to the individual to
remain in the United States; or
(2) if there is an expiration date on the authorization granted to
the individual to remain in the United States, the earlier of the
following:
(A) At midnight of the date the authorization of the holder to
have lawful status as a permanent resident or conditional
resident alien of the United States expires.
(B) At midnight of the birthday of the holder that occurs six
(6) years after the date of issuance.
(e) An identification card expires upon the bureau receiving notice
of the death of the holder or upon issuance of a subsequent physical
credential.
SECTION 33. IC 9-24-16.5-5, AS AMENDED BY P.L.147-2018,
SECTION 21, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 5. (a) Except as provided in subsection (f), a
photo exempt identification card expires at midnight on the birth date
of the holder that occurs six (6) years following the date of issuance.
(b) An application for renewal of a photo exempt identification card
may be made not more than twenty-four (24) months before the
expiration date of the card.
(c) A renewed photo exempt identification card is valid on the birth
date of the holder and remains valid for six (6) years.
(d) A photo exempt identification card may not be renewed if the
holder was issued a driver's license or an identification card after the
last issuance of a photo exempt identification card.
(e) An application for the renewal of a photo exempt identification
card may not be made by mail or by electronic service.
(f) A photo exempt identification card expires upon the bureau
receiving notice of the death of the holder or upon issuance of a
subsequent physical credential.
SECTION 34. IC 9-25-4-7, AS AMENDED BY P.L.59-2013,
SECTION 9, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JANUARY 1, 2028]: Sec. 7. (a) Proof of financial responsibility as
requested by the bureau:
(1) must be in effect on the date of the request; and
(2) may be given by any of the following methods:
(A) Proof that a policy or policies of operator or motor vehicle
liability insurance, as applicable, have been obtained and are
in full force and effect, including through a secure online
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 27 ---
27
insurance verification system under IC 9-25-11.
(B) Proof that a bond has been duly executed.
(C) Proof that deposit has been made of money or securities.
(b) Proof of financial responsibility as request ed by a law
enforcement officer:
(1) must be in effect on the date of the request; and
(2) may be provided in a paper or electronic format or may be
verified by the law enforcement officer through a secure
online insurance verification system under IC 9-25-11. For
purposes of this subdivision, electronic formats include the
display of an electronic image on a telecommunications device.
SECTION 35. IC 9-25-4-8, AS AMENDED BY P.L.59-2013,
SECTION 10, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JANUARY 1, 2028]: Sec. 8. Proof of financial responsibility meeting
the requirements set forth in this article must be filed in a manner
prescribed by the bureau by an insurance carrier of the person for
whom proof is required or through a secure online insurance
verification system under IC 9-25-11.
SECTION 36. IC 9-25-11 IS ADDED TO THE INDIANA CODE
AS A NEW CHAPTER TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JANUARY 1, 2028]:
Chapter 11. Real Time Insurance Verification
Sec. 1. (a) The bureau shall maintain a secure online insurance
verification system to access information in real time from a
driver's insurer for the purpose of determining a driver's
compliance with this article. The secure online insurance
verification system must transmit requests to insurers for
verification of motor vehicle liability insurance policies via web
services established by the insurers in compliance with the
specifications and standards of the Insurance Industry Committee
on Motor Vehicle Administration.
(b) In any circumstance in which the bureau or a law
enforcement officer is required by law to determine a driver's
compliance with this article, the bureau  or the law enforcement
officer shall use the secure online insurance verification system.
(c) If the bureau or a law enforcement officer is unable to
determine a driver's compliance with this article through the
secure online insurance verification system, the bureau shall
determine the driver's compliance with this article using another
method allowed under this article.
Sec. 2. The bureau may contract with a third party to
implement this chapter.
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 28 ---
28
Sec. 3. An insurer shall allow the bureau to access information
regarding a driver's compliance with this article through a secure
online insurance verification system.
Sec. 4. The bureau may adopt rules under IC 4-22-2 to
implement this chapter.
SECTION 37. IC 9-25-11.5 IS ADDED TO THE INDIANA CODE
AS A NEW CHAPTER TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]:
Chapter 11.5. Real Time Insurance Verification Advisory Board
Sec. 1. As used in this chapter, "advisory board" refers to the
real time insurance verification advisory board established by
section 2 of this chapter.
Sec. 2. The real time insurance verification advisory board is
established under the executive branch of state government for the
purpose of advising the bureau on the implementation of the real
time insurance verification program.
Sec. 3. The advisory board consists of the following eight (8)
members:
(1) The commissioner or the commissioner's designee.
(2) The following seven (7) members, all appointed by the
commissioner:
(A) Two (2) members representing the bureau.
(B) One (1) member representing the department of
insurance.
(C) Three (3) members representing insurance companies,
recommended by the Insurance Industry Committee on
Motor Vehicle Administration.
(D) One (1) member representing an independent
insurance agency.
Sec. 4. (a) The members shall elect a chairperson of the advisory
board at the advisory board's first meeting.
(b) A majority of the members of the advisory board constitutes
a quorum.
(c) All members of the advisory board are nonvoting members.
The advisory board may not take official action.
(d) An appointed member of the advisory board serves a two (2)
year term, beginning December 31, 2025, and ending December 31,
2027.
(e) An appointed member of the advisory board serves at the
will of the commissioner. If a vacancy occurs on the advisory
board, the commissioner shall appoint an individual to fill the
vacancy.
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 29 ---
29
Sec. 5. (a) A member of the advisory board who is not a state
employee is not entitled to the minimum salary per diem provided
by IC 4-10-11-2.1(b). The member is, however, entitled to
reimbursement for mileage and traveling expenses as provided
under IC 4-13-1-4 and other expenses actually incurred in
connection with the member's duties as provided in the state
policies and procedures established by the Indiana department of
administration and approved by the budget agency.
(b) Each member of the advisory board who is a state employee,
but who is not a member of the general assembly, is entitled to
reimbursement for mileage and traveling expenses as provided
under IC 4-13-1-4 and other expenses actually incurred in
connection with the member's duties as provided in the state
policies and procedures established by the Indiana department of
administration and approved by the budget agency.
Sec. 6. (a) The bureau shall staff the advisory board.
(b) The expenses of the advisory board shall be paid from funds
appropriated to the bureau.
Sec. 7. This chapter expires December 31, 2028.
SECTION 38. IC 9-26-2-2 IS AMENDED TO READ AS
FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 2. (a) A law
enforcement officer shall forward a written report of each accident
investigated under section 1 of this chapter to the state police
department within twenty-four (24) hours after completing the
investigation. The report must contain, if possible, the following
information:
(1) The name and address of the owner and operator of each
vehicle involved in the accident.
(2) The license number and description of each vehicle involved
in the accident.
(3) The time and place the accident occurred.
(4) The name and address of each person injured or killed in the
accident.
(5) The name and address of each witness to the accident.
(6) Whether the law enforcement officer has a reasonable
belief that a driver's medical impairment may have
contributed to the accident.
(b) A law enforcement officer and a law enforcement agency are
not civilly or criminally liable for any damages related to whether
a law enforcement officer identifies or fails to identify whether a
driver's medical impairment may have contributed to an accident
under subsection (a)(6).
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 30 ---
30
SECTION 39. IC 10-11-2-35.4 IS ADDED TO THE INDIANA
CODE AS A NEW SECTION TO READ AS FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 35.4. The state police department
shall review its rate sheet for towing service not less than one (1)
time per calendar year.
SECTION 40. IC 10-11-2-35.6 IS ADDED TO THE INDIANA
CODE AS A NEW SECTION TO READ AS FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 35.6. The state police department
may perform an audit of a towing company's truck and equipment
inventory before adding the towing company to the state police
department's towing rotation.
SECTION 41. IC 24-4-26 IS ADDED TO THE INDIANA CODE
AS A NEW CHAPTER TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
UPON PASSAGE]:
Chapter 26. Advertising of Illegal Products
Sec. 1. This chapter does not apply to the advertisement of a:
(1) product containing marijuana; or
(2) controlled substance listed in schedule I of IC 35-48-2;
pursuant to a contract that was entered into or renewed before the
effective date of this chapter as enacted by the 2025 general
assembly.
Sec. 2. As used in this chapter, "marijuana" has the meaning set
forth in IC 35-48-1-19.
Sec. 3. As used in this chapter, "person" means:
(1) an individual;
(2) a proprietorship;
(3) a partnership;
(4) a firm;
(5) an association;
(6) a corporation;
(7) a limited liability company; or
(8) another legal entity.
Sec. 4. A person may not advertise a:
(1) product containing marijuana; or
(2) controlled substance listed in schedule I of IC 35-48-2;
by any medium.
Sec. 5. (a) The attorney general may bring an action under this
chapter to obtain any or all of the following against a person that
violates this chapter:
(1) An injunction to enjoin future violations of this chapter.
(2) The following civil penalties:
(A) Not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000) for the
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 31 ---
31
first violation.
(B) Not more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000) for a
second violation.
(C) Not more than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000) for
each additional violation.
(3) The attorney general's reasonable costs in:
(A) the investigation of the violations under this chapter;
and
(B) maintaining the action.
(b) All civil penalties collected under this chapter shall be
deposited in the state general fund.
SECTION 42. IC 24-5-0.5-2, AS AMENDED BY P.L.280-2019,
SECTION 4, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 2. (a) As used in this chapter:
(1) "Consumer transac tion" means a sale, lease, assignment,
award by chance, or other disposition of an item of personal
property, real property, a service, or an intangible, except
securities and policies or contracts of insurance issued by
corporations authorized to transact an insurance business under
the laws of the state of Indiana, with or without an extension of
credit, to a person for purposes that are primarily personal,
familial, charitable, agricultural, or household, or a solicitation to
supply any of these things. However, the term includes the
following:
(A) A transfer of structured settlement payment rights under
IC 34-50-2.
(B) An unsolicited advertisement sent to a person by telephone
facsimile machine offering a sale, lease, assignment, award by
chance, or other disposition of an item of personal property,
real property, a service, or an intangible.
(C) The collection of or attempt to collect a debt by a debt
collector.
(D) Conduct that arises from, occurs in connection with, or
otherwise involves a transaction for emergency towing (as
defined in IC 24-14-2-5) of a person al or commercial
vehicle.
(2) "Person" means an individual, corporation, the state of Indiana
or its subdivisions or agencies, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership, association, nonprofit corporation or organization, or
cooperative or any other legal entity.
(3) "Supplier" means the following:
(A) A seller, lessor, assignor, or other person who regularly
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 32 ---
32
engages in or solicits consumer transactions, including
soliciting a consumer transaction by using a telephone
facsimile machine to transmit an unsolicited advertisement.
The term includes a manufacturer, wholesaler, or retailer,
whether or not the person deals directly with the consumer.
(B) A debt collector.
(4) "Subject of a consumer transaction" means the personal
property, real property, services, or intangibles offered or
furnished in a consumer transaction.
(5) "Cure" as applied to a deceptive act, means either:
(A) to offer in writing to adjust or modify the consumer
transac tion to which the act relates to conform to the
reasonable expectations of the consumer generated by such
deceptive act and to perform such offer if accepted by the
consumer; or
(B) to offer in writing to rescind such consumer transaction
and to perform such offer if accepted by the consumer.
The term includes an offer in writing of one (1) or more items of
value, including monetary compensation, that the supplier
delivers to a consumer or a representative of the consumer if
accepted by the consumer.
(6) "Offer to cure" as applied to a deceptive act is a cure that:
(A) is reasonably calculated to remedy a loss claimed by the
consumer; and
(B) includes a minimum additional amount that is the greater
of:
(i) ten percent (10%) of the value of the remedy under
clause (A), but not more than four thousand dollars
($4,000); or
(ii) five hundred dollars ($500);
as compensation for attorney's fees, expenses, and other costs
that a consumer may incur in relation to the deceptive act.
(7) "Uncured deceptive act" means a deceptive act:
(A) with respect to which a consumer who has been damaged
by such act has given notice to the supplier under section 5(a)
of this chapter; and
(B) either:
(i) no offer to cure has been made to such consumer within
thirty (30) days after such notice; or
(ii) the act has not been cured as to such consumer within a
reasonable time after the consumer's acceptance of the offer
to cure.
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 33 ---
33
(8) "Incurable deceptive act" means a deceptive act done by a
supplier as part of a scheme, artifice, or device with intent to
defraud or mislead. The term includes a failure of a transferee of
structured settlement payment rights to timely provide a true and
complete disclosure statement to a payee as provided under
IC 34-50-2 in connection with a direct or indirect transfer of
structured settlement payment rights.
(9) "Senior consumer" means an individual who is at least sixty
(60) years of age.
(10) "Telephone facsimile machine" means equipment that has
the capacity to transcribe text or images, or both, from:
(A) paper into an electronic signal and to transmit that signal
over a regular telephone line; or
(B) an electronic signal received over a regular telephone line
onto paper.
(11) "Unsolicited advertisement" means material advertising the
commercial availability or quality of:
(A) property;
(B) goods; or
(C) services;
that is transmitted to a person without the person's prior express
invitation or permission, in writing or otherwise.
(12) "Debt" has the meaning set forth in 15 U.S.C. 1692(a)(5).
(13) "Debt collector" has the meaning set forth in 15 U.S.C.
1692(a)(6). The term does not include a person admitted to the
practice of law in Indiana if the person is acting within the course
and scope of the person's practice as an attorney. The term
includes a debt buyer (as defined in IC 24-5-15.5).
(b) As used in section 3(b)(15) and 3(b)(16) of this chapter:
(1) "Directory assistance" means the disclosure of telephone
number information in connection with an identified telephone
service subscriber by means of a live operator or automated
service.
(2) "Local telepho ne directory" refers to a telephone classified
advertising directory or the business section of a telephone
directory that is distributed by a telephone company or directory
publisher to subscribers located in the local exchanges contained
in the directory. The term includes a directory that includes
listings of more than one (1) telephone company.
(3) "Local telephone number" refers to a telephone number that
has the three (3) number prefix used by the provider of telephone
service for telephones physically located within the area covered
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 34 ---
34
by the local telephone directory in which the number is listed. The
term does not include long distance numbers or 800-, 888-, or
900- exchange numbers listed in a local telephone directory.
SECTION 43. IC 24-14-2-3.8 IS ADDED TO THE INDIANA
CODE AS A NEW SECTION TO READ AS FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 3.8. "Compensation" means any
money, thing of value, or econ omic benefit conferred on, or
received by, a person in return for servi ces rendered, or for
services to be rendered, whether by that person or another person.
SECTION 44. IC 24-14-2-5, AS ADDED BY P.L.281-2019,
SECTION 5, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 5. "Emergency towing" means the towing and
storage of a motor vehicle, with or without the owner's consent,
because of:
(1) a motor vehicle accident on a public street, road, or highway;
or
(2) an incident:
(A) related to an emergency; and
(B) necessitating the removal of the motor vehicle from a
location for public safety reasons.
SECTION 45. IC 24-14-2-12.3 IS ADDED TO THE INDIANA
CODE AS A NEW SECTION TO READ AS FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 12.3. "Property", for purposes of
IC 24-14-7, has the meaning set forth in IC 24-14-7-3.
SECTION 46. IC 24-14-5-1, AS ADDED BY P.L.281-2019,
SECTION 5, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 1. (a) An itemized invoice of actual towing
charges assessed by a towing company shall be made available to the
owner of the motor vehicle or the owner's agent not later than one (1)
business day after:
(1) the tow is completed; or
(2) the towing company has obtained all necessary information to
be included on the invoice, including any charges submitted by
subcontractors used by the towing company to complete the tow
and recovery.
(b) The itemized invoice required by this section must contain the
following information:
(1) The location from which the motor vehicle was towed.
(2) The location to which the motor vehicle was towed.
(3) The name, address, and telephone number of the towing
company.
(4) A description of the towed motor vehicle, including the:
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 35 ---
35
(A) make;
(B) model;
(C) year; and
(D) vehicle identification number;
of the motor vehicle.
(5) The license plate number and state of registration for the
towed motor vehicle.
(6) The cost of the original towing service.
(7) The cost of any vehicle storage fees, expressed as a daily rate.
(8) Other fees, including documentation fees and motor vehicle
search fees. Each fee must include a full description of the
services that were provided.
(9) The costs for services that were performed under a warranty
or that were otherwise performed at no cost to the owner of the
motor vehicle.
(10) An attestation that all items invoiced were  used and
necessary in the ordinary course of business.
(11) A good faith estimate of the time that each invoiced item
was used and the location.
(12) The number of miles the vehicle was towed.
(c) Any service or fee in addition to the services or fees described
in subsection (b)(6), (b)(7), or (b)(8) must be set forth individually as
a single line item on the invoice required by this section, with an
explanation and the exact charge for the service or the exact amount of
the fee.
(d) A copy of each invoice and receipt submitted by a tow truck
operator in accordance with this section shall:
(1) be retained by the towing company for a period of two (2)
years from the date of issuance; and
(2) throughout the two (2) year period descr ibed in subdivision
(1), be made available for inspection and copying not later than
forty-eight (48) hours after receiving a written reques t for
inspection from:
(A) a law enforcement agency;
(B) the attorney general;
(C) the prosecuting attorney or city attorney having
jurisdiction in the location of any of the towing company's
Indiana business locations;
(D) the disabled motor vehicle's owner; or
(E) the agent of the disabled motor vehicle's owner.
SECTION 47. IC 24-14-5-2 IS ADDED TO THE INDIANA CODE
AS A NEW SECTION TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE JULY
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 36 ---
36
1, 2025]: Sec. 2. A towing company may charge fees for emergency
towing and private property towing as follows:
(1) If the towing service is an emergency towing requested by
the state police department and the towing company has filed
its rates to be part of the state police department's towing
rotation, at the rate agreed to by the towing company and the
state police department.
(2) If the towing service is an emergency towing requested by
a local law enforcement agency and the local law enforcement
agency has set rates, at the rate of the local law enforcement
agency or at the rate provided to the local law enforcement
agency.
(3) If the towing service is an emergency towing requested by
a local law enforcement agency and the local law enforcement
agency does not have set rates or rates provided to the local
law enforcement agency, at the following rates:
(A) The rate the towing company provides to the state
police department district in which the tow occurs.
(B) If the towing company does not have rates filed with
the state police department district in which the tow
occu rs, then a rate that is not more than the state police
department district's towing and storage agreements.
(4) If the towing service is a private property towing
requested by a property owner that does not have a towing
agreement with the towing company, at the rate applicable
under subdivision (2) or (3).
(5) If the towing service is a private property towing
requested by a property owner that has a towing agreement
with the towing company, at the rate applicable in the towing
agreement.
A towing company with a towing agreement that uses the services
of another towing company to respond to an emergency towing
may not charge a rate for the other towing company's services that
is greater than the rate provided in the towing agreement.
SECTION 48. IC 24-14-7-3 IS ADDED TO THE INDIANA CODE
AS A NEW SECTION TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE JULY
1, 2025]: Sec. 3. (a) As used in this section, "property" means any
of the following:
(1) A truck (as defined in IC 9-13-2-188).
(2) A trailer (as defined in IC 9-13-2-184).
(3) Cargo.
(b) A person may file a complaint with the attorney general
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 37 ---
37
alleging a violation of this article under IC 24-14-10-1 if the
person:
(1) owns or holds a lien on property held at a towing company
or storage facility; and
(2) believes the charges relating to a tow or the storage of the
property are unreasonable.
(c) Not later than twenty-four (24) hours after receipt of:
(1) seventy-five percent (75%) of the amount charged;
(2) proof of a bond obtained by the owner for the remaining
twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the invoice; and
(3) a copy of a complaint filed with the attorney general
alleging a violation of this article under IC 24-14-10-1;
a towing company or storage facility shall release all property to
a properly identified person who owns or holds a lien on the
property.
SECTION 49. IC 24-14-8-1, AS ADDED BY P.L.281-2019,
SECTION 5, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 1. A towing company or storage facility shall
charge a fee for towing, clean-up services, or storage of a motor vehicle
that is reasonable and may not exceed the storage rates allowed
under IC 9-22-1-4.
SECTION 50. IC 24-14-8-3, AS ADDED BY P.L.281-2019,
SECTION 5, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 3. Upon demand, a towing company or storage
facility shall furnish a copy of the invoice described in IC 24-14-5 and
all supporting documentation, including payroll records and copies
of invoices from third parties that are included on the invoice, to a
local law enforcement agency or the office of the attorney general.
SECTION 51. IC 24-14-9-1, AS ADDED BY P.L.281-2019,
SECTION 5, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 1. A towing company shall not do any of the
following:
(1) Falsely represent, either expressly or by implication, that the
towing company represents or is approved by any organization
that provides emergency road service for disabled motor vehicles.
(2) Require the owner or operator of a disabled motor vehicle to
preauthorize:
(A) repair work; or
(B) more than twenty-four (24) hours of storage;
as a condition for providing towing service for the disabled motor
vehicle.
(3) Charge more than one (1) towing fee when the owner or
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 38 ---
38
operator of a disabled motor vehicle requests that the disabled
motor vehicle be towed to a repair facility owned or operated by
the towing company.
(4) Tow a motor vehicle to a repair facility unless:
(A) either:
(i) the owner of the motor vehicle; or
(ii) the owner's designated representative;
gives consent for the motor vehicle to be towed to the repair
facility; and
(B) the consent described in clause (A) is given before the
motor vehicle is removed from the location from which it is to
be towed.
The prohibition set forth in this subdivision does not apply in any
case in which a towing company tows a motor vehicle to a storage
facility that includes a repair facility on the same site.
(5) Offer or provide compensation to a person for a towing
referral unless the person and towing company have a prior
contract.
SECTION 52. IC 24-14-9-2, AS ADDED BY P.L.281-2019,
SECTION 5, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 2. A towing company or a storage facility shall not
do any of the following:
(1) Upon payment of all costs relating to a tow, motor vehicle
storage, and all allowable fees, as applicable, refuse to release the
motor vehicle during regular office hours to a properly identified
person who owns or holds a lien on the motor vehicle in
accordance with the procedures and subject to the same
requirements set forth in IC 9-22-1-8 with respect to abandoned
motor vehicles. However, a towing company or storage facility
shall not release a motor vehicle in any case in which a local law
enforcement agency has ordered the motor vehicle not to be
released, or in any case in which the motor vehicle cannot be
released because of pending litigation.
(2) Refuse to permit:
(A) a properly identified person who owns or holds a lien on
a motor vehicle; or
(B) a representative of the insurance company that insures the
motor vehicle, if the vehicle is covered by an active policy of
insurance;
to inspect the motor vehicle during regular office hours before all
costs incurred against the motor vehicle are paid or the motor
vehicle is released. An inspection fee may not be charged for an
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 39 ---
39
A retrieval fee may be charged if it complies with the
requirements of IC 9-22-1-8. inspection that occurs during
regular office hours.
(3) Charge any storage fee for a stored motor vehicle with respect
to any day on which:
(A) release of the motor vehicle; or
(B) inspection of the motor vehicle by the owner, lienholder,
or insurance company;
is not permitted during regular office hours by the towing
company or storage facility.
(4) Offer to provide compensation to a person for a referral
unless the person and the towing company or storage facility
have an executed contract in place.
(5) Charge more than the fees that are included in a towing
agreement or contract with the law enforcement agency that
ordered the tow or the contract with the private property
owner that ordered the tow under IC 9-22-1.
SECTION 53. IC 34-30-2.1-103.8 IS ADDED TO THE INDIANA
CODE AS A NEW SECTION TO READ AS FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 103.8. IC 9-26-2-2 (Concerning
reporting whether a driver's medical impairment may have
contributed to an accident).
SECTION 54. IC 36-9-4-29.4, AS AMENDED BY P.L.210-2023,
SECTION 2, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 29.4. (a) This section does not apply to a public
transportation corporation located in a county having a consolidated
city.
(b) A public transportation corporation may provide regularly
scheduled passenger service to specifically designated locations outside
the system's operational boundaries as described in IC 36-9-1-9 if all
of the following conditions are met:
(1) The legislative body of the municipality approves any
expansion of the service outside the municipality's corporate
boundaries.
(2) The expanded service is reasonably required to do any of the
following:
(A) Enhance employment opportunities in the new service area
or the existing service area.
(B) Serve persons who are elderly, persons with a disability, or
other persons who are in need of public transportation.
(3) Except as provided in subsections (e) and (f), the expanded
service does not extend beyond the boundary of the county in
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 40 ---
40
which the corporation is located.
(c) Notwithstanding section 39 of this chapter, a public
transportation corporation may provide demand responsive service
outside of the system's operational boundaries as described in
IC 36-9-1-9 if the conditions listed in subsection (b) are met.
(d) The board may contract with a private operator for the operation
of an expanded service under this section.
(e) Subsection (b)(3) does not apply to a special purpose bus (as
defined in IC 20-27-2-10) or a school bus (as defined in IC 20-27-2-8)
that provides expanded service for a purpose permitted under
IC 20-27-9.
(f) A county having a population of more than one hundred
eighty-five thousand (185,000) and less than two hundred thousand
(200,000) may enter into an interlocal cooperation agreement with an
adjacent county unde r IC 36-1-7 to allow a public transportation
corporation to provide expanded service beyond the boundary of the
county in which the corporation is located.
SECTION 55. IC 36-9-44.7 IS ADDED TO THE INDIANA CODE
AS A NEW CHAPTER TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]:
Chapter 44.7. State Right-of-Way
Sec. 1. (a) A county may mow or maintain any grass or
vegetation in a right-of-way that is:
(1) owned by the state; and
(2) located in the county;
if the county obtains a permit from the office of the Indiana
department of transportation district in which the county is
located.
(b) A county may not seek reimbursement from the state for the
costs of any mowing or maintenance by the county under
subsection (a).
SECTION 56. An emergency is declared for this act.
HEA 1390 — CC 1


--- Page 41 ---
Speaker of the House of Representatives
President of the Senate
President Pro Tempore
Governor of the State of Indiana
Date: Time: 
HEA 1390 — CC 1
