--- Page 1 ---
First Reg ular Sessio n of the 124th General A ssem bly (2025)
PRINTING CODE. Amendments: Whenever an existing statute (or a section of the Indiana
Constitution) is being amended, the text of the existing provision will appear in this style type,
additions will appear in this sty le type, and deletions will appear in this style type.
  Additions: Whenever a new statutory provision is being enacted (or a new constitutional
provision adopted), the text of the new provision will appear in  this  style  type. Also, the
word NEW will appear in that style type in the introductory clause of each SECTION that adds
a new provision to the Indiana Code or the Indiana Constitution.
  Conflict reconciliation: Text in a statute in this style type or this style type reconciles conflicts
between statutes enacted by the 2024 Regular Session of the General Assembly.
HOUSE ENROLLED ACT No. 1194
AN ACT to amend the Indiana Code concerning local government.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana:
SECTION 1. IC 36-2-14-20, AS AMENDED BY P.L.148-2024,
SECTION 31, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2025]: Sec. 20. (a) This section applies only to the autopsy of
a person whose death is:
(1) natural;
(1) (2) suspicious;
(2) (3) violent;
(3) (4) accidental; or
(4) (5) from an overdose.
(b) As used in this section, "autopsy" means the external and
surgical internal examination of all body systems of a decedent,
including toxicology and histology.
(c) Except as provided in subsection (d) (e) and IC 4-24-4-1, if an
Indiana resident dies in an Indiana county as a result of an incident that
occurred in another Indiana county, the county coroner where the death
occurred shall discuss whether an autopsy is warranted with contact
the coroner of the county where the incident occurred to discuss
whether an autopsy is needed. The coroner where the incident
occurred must respond to the coroner where the death occurred
not more than twenty-four (24) hours after being contacted to
discuss the need for an autopsy. If, after discussion, the coroners:
(1) agree that an autopsy is needed:
HEA 1194 — CC 1


--- Page 2 ---
2
(A) the coroner of the county in which the incident
occurred is responsible for the cost of the autopsy,
including the physician fee under section 6(e) of this
chapter; and
(B) the coroner of the county where the death occurred shall
bill the county in which the incident occurred for the cost of
the autopsy, including the physician fee under section 6(e) of
this chapter. costs in clause (A) not later than one hundred
eighty (180) days after the death occurred; or
(2) disagree that an autopsy is needed, the coroner of the
county that conducts the autopsy is responsible for the cost of
the autopsy, including the physician fee under section 6(e) of
this chapter except in the instance of a criminal case that
could result in criminal charges in which the county where the
incident occurred is responsible for the cost of the autopsy,
including the physician fee under section 6(e) of this chapter.
(d) If the coroner where the incident occurred fails to respond
to the coro ner where the death occurred not more than
twenty-four (24) hours after being contacted under subsection (c)
to discuss whether an autopsy is needed:
(1) the coron er where the death occurred may perform an
autopsy, if the coroner believes that an autopsy is warranted;
(2) the coroner of the county in which the incident occurred
is responsible for the cost of the autopsy, including the
physician fee under section 6(e) of this chapter; and
(3) the coroner of the county where the death occurred shall
bill the county in which the incident occurred for the costs in
subdivision (2) not later than one hundred eighty (180) days
after the death occurred.
(d) (e) Except as provided in subsection (c) subsections (c) and (d)
and IC 4-24-4-1, payment for the costs of an autopsy requested by a
party other than the:
(1) prosecuting attorney; or
(2) county coroner;
of the county in which the individual died must be made by the party
requesting the autopsy.
(e) (f) This section does not preclude the coroner of a county in
which a death occurs from attempting to recover autopsy costs from the
jurisdiction outside Indiana where the incident that caused the death
occurred.
SECTION 2. IC 36-2-14-22.1, AS ADDED BY P.L.225-2007,
SECTION 19, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
HEA 1194 — CC 1


--- Page 3 ---
3
JANUARY 1, 2026]: Sec. 22.1. (a) As used in this section, "hospital"
refers to a hospital that is licensed under IC 16-21-2.
(b) Upon the request of a coroner who is conducting or will conduct
a death investigation on an individual who is admitted or was admitted
to a hospital, the hospital shall provide a sample of the individual's
blood or tissue to the coroner.
(c) A hospital shall have a blood retention protocol for the
preservation of the first sample of blood drawn for an individual
seeking treatment of emergency care services at an emergency
department of the hospital, regardless of whether the individual is
ultimately admitted to the hospital. The protocol shall include a
plan for:
(1) when a patient is transferred to another hospital; and
(2) notifying the laboratory for a requisition or order for
whole blood sample analysis to indicate when a patient is:
(A) treated for an injury that is suspicious, violent,
accidental, or from an overdose; and
(B) determined by a provider to be critically injured or
mortally wounded at the time the patient seeks emergency
care services at the emergency department.
(d) A laboratory that receives an order for whole blood sample
analysis and the notification under subsection (c)(2) shall do the
following:
(1) The laboratory shall hold the blood sample in storage until
the earlier of the following:
(A) The expiration of the twenty-one (21) day period
beginning on the date that the sample of the patient's blood
is drawn.
(B) The date of the patient's discharge from the hospital.
For purposes of this clause, the transfer of the patient to
another hospital does not constitute a discharge.
(C) The date of the patient's death.
(2) This subdivision applies if:
(A) the patient is transferred to another hospital; and
(B) at the time of the transfer, the transferring hospital is
still holding the first blood sample in storage in accordance
with subdivision (1)(A).
The transferring hospital laboratory shall hold the first blood
sample in storage in accor dance with subdivision (1)(A),
unless the transferring hospital laboratory receives
inform ation from the receiving hospital that the patient has
been discharged from the receiving hospital or has died.
HEA 1194 — CC 1


--- Page 4 ---
4
The requirements set forth in this subsection may be waived in any
case where the sample is tested and cannot be retained for reasons
of medical necessity in the clinical care of the patient.
(b) (e) A coroner does not need to obtain a warrant to request a
blood or tissue sample under this section.
HEA 1194 — CC 1


--- Page 5 ---
Speaker of the House of Representatives
President of the Senate
President Pro Tempore
Governor of the State of Indiana
Date: Time: 
HEA 1194 — CC 1
